# STATISTICAL COMPARISON OF MALE PRAIRIE VOLES BASED ON CENTRALITY MEASURES FROM THEIR PREFRONTAL CORTEX BRAIN REGION IN A NETWORK

# Objective
This study primarily provides statistical comparative analysis to answer an objective question between two groups of prairie voles by means of a network (graph analysis). The satellite region of interest from these prairie voles was the pre-frontal cortex region of their brain. In this analysis, the four centrality measures such as degree, closeness, betweenness, and Eigen centrality were estimated from the undirected graph of the more social (IL) or less social (KI) group. Given these measures, the pre-frontal cortex subregion of the brain from these two groups of voles was spotlighted for statistical comparison. The main objective of this analysis then was to justify statistically that, given these centrality measures from the pre-frontal cortex region of the brain in the IL and KI male voles, we can strongly agree that there is a significant difference in their social behavior as indicated.

# Findings (Conclusion)
Praire vole is a rodent noted to exhibit some kind of social networking behavior based on geographical location. A test has earlier shown that if an offspring is obtained from the two groups of voles (that is a KS and IL) to obtain KI, it turns to exhibit less social behavior. However, there is a need to determine if there is a significant difference in the social behavior of more social (IL) and less social (KI) groups of male prairie voles based on their centrality measures from a social graph network by means of statistical analysis. Specifically, centrality estimates from the prefrontal cortex region of the brain were highlighted for comparison. Sound statistical tests were carried out on these measures, and it turns out that, given the highlighted region, the only measure which indeed distinguished the IL and KI groups of voles was the eigenvalue centrality. Therefore the two groups are indeed significantly different in their social behavior given the Eigen centrality. However, not enough information available to draw the same conclusion in the case of the degree, betweenness and closeness measure. Hence, if the significance level is varied or the entire brain is considered for the comparison, there may be a higher chance of the other measures sufficiently distinguishing the two groups. Therefore there is statistical significance difference in the two groups of voles given the Eigen centrality from the prefrontal cortex region.